We are going to talk
about multiple forums.
So in our case, we want to be
able to have a delete button and
an update post when we're looking at
a post and when we're on the new route.
Then we just want to have
the Create Post button.
So for the way that we're
going to structure this,
I wanna start with just the UI.
And so we get all the buttons
in the right spot and
then we can make it
function on the server.
So instead of this p tag I'm
actually gonna make a div that is
display flex justify.
Let's see justify, or
yeah, what is it space?
Yeah, justify right.
If I write or end yeah,
that's what it is and
then a gap of 4, okay.
Cuz we're gonna have two
buttons here now and
this one is gonna be our delete button.
So we'll have an is deleting
variable that we'll create and
this will say deleting
otherwise delete post.
And for the deleting one, instead of blue,
let's make it look red, so
it looks dangerous and stuff.
And then of course, we also only want that
to render when we're on an existing post.
If we're on a new post,
I don't wanna render anything.
So I'm going to add it is new
post we'll render no otherwise,
we'll render the button.
So we're gonna need to create that as new
post variable here in a second as well.
And then on this button we could actually
create three separate buttons and
just choose which to render but
I'm gonna just reuse this one.
Just because that's the way I did it and
we're gonna stick with that.
So in this case, we want it to be
disabled if it's creating or is updating.
And then this one's gonna
be a little bit tricky.
We could do like a really funny looking,
nested ternary thing here, and
I tried it and I didn't like it.
So what we're gonna do instead.
Isn't gonna say isNewPost so
if we are a new post and isUpdating.
Actually you know what?
I don't remember exactly you, shoot.
Yeah, I'm gonna have to
reference this one too.
[LAUGH] So a final seven slug.
So I am cheating yes but
I promise you'll be happier
that I'm cheating than if I just tried
to work this out myself, there we go.
So if we're a new post and we're in a
creating state then we'll render creating
otherwise we're under Create if we're
not a new post then we'll render null.
So we're not going to render anything for
the creating one.
If we are a new post then we
won't render the updating state.
If we're updating then we'll say updating,
otherwise we'll say update.
So that just gets us in a good place for
the button to say updating or
creating based on the isNewPost and
isCreating versus isUpdating state.
Okay, great so the next thing
that we need to do let's see yeah
we'll do that here now is disambiguate
between which transition we're doing.
So, if we come up here and we've got
this isCreating we're just saying,
hey we're in a creating state
if we're submitting anything.
If anything's being submitted I'm creating
but that's not the case anymore, right?
We have multiple forms on the page,
multiple reasons we could be
transitioning, with a submission, and
so, now we have to have
some way to disambiguate.
And so,
we will need to say transition submission.
So, we know what submission is being made,
and the submission won't always be truthy.
So we'll do this Elvis operator
here to get the form data.
So, if that transition, or
if that submission exists,
then the form data will exist and
we can get Properties from that form data.
So what could we get?
Well, we could get the post title
that's not gonna tell us whether or
not it's being submitted.
We can get the Post Slug,
also not gonna to be able to tell us and
we can get the mark down that
won't tell us either but
there's one other thing that we can do.
Actually there are a couple of things but
one thing that we can do to disambiguate
and that is submit buttons like this can
actually have a name and a value as well.
This was a new thing for
me when I started using Remix.
But you can have a name,
here we'll do the delete button first,
you're gonna have a name that is delete.
Sorry we'll call it intent.
So what did the user intend to do and
the value be delete.
So now you can look this up in the form
submission to know what was the intent,
which of these buttons did they click.
So we can add a name on this one and
we can say intent equals and
we'll say if it is a new post,
then this is gonna be create.
Otherwise it'll be update.
>> Do you mean value there?
>> You are exactly right.
Thank you.
[LAUGH] Value, there we go.
So, all you need is either TypeScript or
Peter and
you'll be good [LAUGH] Thank you.
So now we can get the intent and
it the intent is create,
then we know that the user
is submitting the creation.
They've clicked on the create button and
then we can do the same thing for
our isUpdating and isDeleting.
Come on co-pilot.
Thank you.
And then we'll do the same thing for
isDeleting.
And look they're all exactly 80
characters wide, that's fun.
Okay, so now we know.
Which of these three
things the user is doing?
And down here,
our stuff will hopefully I'll update.
The last thing we need to do
is create this isNewPost, and
we should be able to
actually render this thing.
So I'll say isNewPost and we're gonna know
that based on whether data.post exists,
so if there is no post on the data,
then that means our loader returned to no.
We could also just get the params and say,
here are the params new and if that's the
case, then we can just do that as well.
So, couple options there, but there's
no posts and we are creating a new one.
So now we can come over here,
we get create.
And we get update and delete post.
So that is working and
we just need to make the backend
actually function properly.
Any questions so far?
Okay, cool.
So let's make the backend work now.
For delete, that one's actually
relatively straightforward.
If we can just grab the intent
from the form data.
And if the intent is delete then
we'll just delete the post and
in this case,
we're gonna need the params slug.
So let's grab the params and
slug because our file
name is dollar slug so
that's why that pram works.
So this delete post is gonna come
from our model server right there.
And this is again, the params.
Like could be undefined there's no
way that TypeScript can know for
sure that this is going to be defined.
So we'll add an invariant
rate appear invariant.
For params.slug and
slug not found, okay, cool.
So now our delete button should work.
Let's go ahead and
try it just for the fun of it.
So delete and you saw it really quickly.
It's a deleting data and then it deleted
and redirected me where I wanted to go.
Perfect, so now let's get rid of that.
Now come down here and we just need to
decide whether to update the post or
create a post based on
whether prams slug is new.
So if params slug is new then we
will create the post otherwise we'll
update the post with the title slug and
markdown.
And there we go.
So now I can come over here and add,
I don't know what's a good song?
I can't think of a good song right now
because I'm too busy thinking that I
can't think.
I have a good song.
So, Kryptonite, there we go.
I knew that I was gonna be judged by any
song that I said yeah, Jingle Bells.
Okay, there we go.
Updates like is required.
Rats.
Okay, so that's annoying let's fix that.
I think that actually is
broken in the finished.
Version so let's just fix that
together here really quick.
So we go to our slug the name here we've
got a default value is the post slug and
it's disabled.
That's probably why
it's not coming across.
So but we wanna disable it because
this is actually our ID of our post.
So you could probably fix this and make
this blog platform have more features.
But with the limited feature set that we
have right now, what we're going to do is.
Actually instead of using the slug
here we'll use params.slug
because they can't change
that post slug anyway.
Okay, so now, Kryptonite update,
slug is still required.
Well, that is because at rats,
that's because of this.
So yeah, you all get it, we just fix it so
we're not validating if we're
updating yada, yada, yada.
Cool so that is multiple forms.
The basic idea is name and
value on the button.
That's that's pretty much it.
Another option is you can do it.
Input hidden name whatever value whatever
this was actually really common or
you a lot of people will do type hidden
really common back in the PHP days.
Are you like I've got a to do list and
I've got the ID of to do that you're
checking off as a hidden input.
That's another option and this actually
works nicely if you're integrating
with a library like some form element that
doesn't use regular HTML inputs and stuff.
For its value and it's just expecting
you to get an on change and
do your own fetch or whatever.
You could render a hidden input
yourself with the value of that,
whatever that's supposed to be.
So it will be submitted along
with the rest of the form.
So, that's actually a pretty fairly
common solution to this problem as well.
I really liked the button
with the name and value.
And the name intent is just convention and
it's not even a remix convention and
it's a KCD convention.
There you go.
So I've also tried action and sub action.
Intent is my favorite it's my
least hated solution there.